# MAT021-Foundations-of-Operational-Research-and-Analytics
my wechat：lovexc60  Don't hesitate to contact me
Objective: Using Simul8, develop a model to help the manager of a refrigerated storage facility todetermine the appropriate number of forklifts and specialist handling machines needed to meettheir service standards when dealing with food shipments arriving to the facility.
In a refrigerated warehouse used for expensive food supplies, arrivals are classified according to thetime they can survive outside a retrigerated environment without spoiling (Category's 1, 2 and 3).Arrivals are met at the arrivals bay by a forklift operator who takes the load to one of three queuesaccording to their category. Specialised handling machines then load the arrivals into the mainwarehouse facility. There are service standards, associated with the queues for each category. 99%of category 1 arrivals should not have to wait for more than 15 minutes in total before arriving intothe main warehouse, category 2 arrivals should not have to wait for more than 70 minutes total andcategory 3 no more than 110 minutes
The warehouse is a 24hr operation. During off-peak hours arrival rates are exponentially distributecwith an average of 2 category 1 arrivals per hour, 10 category 2's and 16 category 3's. During peakhours (8am - 5pm) the rates increase to 4 category 1's an hour, 22 category 2's and 30 category 3's.
The time to be met by a forklift at the arrivals bay and moved to the appropriate queue is fixed at 10minutes. for category 1 the time to be loaded into the warehouse by the specialist handling machinehas an average distribution of 5 minutes, for category 2 the process is distributed normally with amean of 12 minutes and a standard deviation of 2 minutes, for category 3 the time for this process isalso normally distributed with a mean of 15 minutes and a standard deviation of 3 minutes
Question: What are the minimum requirements for forklifts and specialist handling machines toensure that the service levels are met during peak hours?
(Note: You may choose to use your specialist handling machines in a pool where they deal with allcategories, or you may wish to allocate specialist handlers to specific categories, or a combination.
Marking Scheme:
Your submission should consist of a functioning copy of your simul8 model and a report (maximum 4pages in pdf format and including any charts and tables), answering the question above and giving theinformation reguired below, The copy of the model will be used to confirm your results and to assessthe marks for section 3 below.
Z.20%: Model Description-appropriate statement of objectives (model aims), description ofmodel, activity flow diagram and model logic.
40%: Simulation Experiments and Results- description of how you used your model to run2different scenarios, model validation/verification, with suitable presentation of results (incl.confidence intervals)and key findings.
240%: Originality and Quality of the Simulation Model - model functionality, appropriateness ofdetail and evidence of range of Simul8 functions appropriately employed. You are not expectedto use Visual Logic whilst building your simulation).
